- [Instructor] Now that we know what protocol buffers are,
let us see how to use them.
We will begin by writing a text file
with a .proto extension.
This will signify that it is a protobuffs file,
and this file will contain your entire service definition.
Let us see, in a gist, how it will look like.
This line will specify the name of the service.
So EmployeeService is the service class for your file.
Inside this, we will define a method called getEmployee.
It is an RPC method.
The input for this is a message called EmployeeRequest,
and this method returns another message
called EmployeeResponse.
This line denotes the remote service method
for your service.
In addition to this,
you also need to define the EmployeeRequest
and EmployeeResponse messages.
This is how we do it.
The EmployeeResponse message contains four fields:
an ID, a username, a name, and a designation.
Each of these fields has a number assigned to them.
This number is used as a tag to identify the field
in the binary message format that gets transported
over the HTTP/2 protocol.
Similarly, we've also defined EmployeeRequest
that contains just a single field called ID.
Please note that this is just a gist
of what your file will look like.
You have loads of other options
that you can specify in your protobuffers file.
Once you complete your service definition,
the next step will be to use the protoc compiler
to generate stubs,
and these stubs can be generated according to a language.
The protoc compiler is going to generate objects
for the corresponding message types that you've defined
in your service file.
These auto-generated classes will implement
automatic encoding and parsing
of the protocol buffer data in an efficient binary format.
These classes will contain getters and setters
for each of the fields that you've defined
in your message types.
These classes will then, in turn, help you to retrieve
or set protocol buffered employee messages.
We will do a quick demo of this
on the Windows operating system in our next video.